Download Link: https://assignmentchef.com/product/solved-ve475-introduction-to-cryptography-homework-6
<br>
<strong>Ex. 1 –</strong><em> Application of the the DLP</em>

Bob wants to prove his identity to Alice. Alice knows that Bob can compute log<sub>α</sub> β in Z/pZ, where a isa generator of the group Z/pZ, and p is a known prime. Unfortunately Bob is not willing to share the

result with her, so he offers to apply the following strategy.

<ul>

 <li>Bob generates a random integer r and sends γ = α mod p to Alice;</li>

 <li>Upon receiving ‘y Alice randomly requests r or x + r mod (p − 1);</li>

 <li>Bob replies accordingly;</li>

</ul>

We now want to study Bod’s idea.

<ol>

 <li>In the previous protocol,</li>

 <li>Why are r and x + r considered modulo (p − 1) ?</li>

 <li>Prove that neither Bob nor Alice can cheat, while Bob can successfully prove his identity.</li>

 <li>How many times should this be repeated for a</li>

 <li>128 bits security level?</li>

 <li>256 bits security level?</li>

 <li>What type of protocol is this?</li>

</ol>

<strong>Ex. 2 –</strong><em> Pohlig-Hellman</em>

Search and explain in details how the Pohlig-Hellman algorithm computes the discrete logarithm of an element in a multiplicative group whose order can be completely factorized into small primes. As an example calculate log3 3344 in G = U(Z/24389Z), knowing that 3 is generator of G.

<strong>Ex. 3 –</strong><em> Elgamal</em>

<ol>

 <li>Prove that the polynomial X<sup>3</sup> + 2X<sup>2</sup> + 1 is irreducible over F3[x], and conclude that it defines the field F33, which has 27 elements.</li>

 <li>Explain how to define a simple map from the set of the letters of the alphabet into F33.</li>

 <li>What is the order of the subgroup generated by X?</li>

 <li>If we set the secret key to be 11, determine the public key.</li>

 <li>Encrypt the message “goodmorning”, and then decrypt the ciphertext.</li>

</ol>

<strong>Ex. 4 –</strong><em> Simple questions</em>

<ol>

 <li>Let n be the product two large primes, p and q. We define h(x) ≡ x<sup>2</sup> mod n. Is h (i) pre-image resistant, (ii) second pre-image resistant, and (iii) collision resistant?</li>

 <li>Supposed a message m is divided into blocks of 160 bits: m = m1∥m2∥ ~ ~ ~ ∥ml. Which properties of a hash function does the function h(m) = m1 ⊕ m2 ⊕ ~~ ~ ⊕ m<em>j </em>verify?</li>

</ol>




<strong>Ex. 5 –</strong><em> Merkle-Damgârd construction</em>

The Merkle-Damg~rd construction provided in the slides is only valid when t &lt; 2, therefore we now use the same notations as in the slides to provide an alternative construction for t = 1.

Let g be a compression function from {0, 1}<sup>m+1</sup> -* {0, 1}<sup>m</sup>, and F be the function defined by F (0) = 0 and F (1) = 01. The map from x to y is defined by y = 11IF (x1)IF (x2)I … IF <sub>(</sub><sub>x</sub><sub>|</sub><sub>x</sub><sub>|</sub><sub>),</sub> where xi represents the i-th bit of x. Assuming |y| = k, compute

<table>

 <tbody>

  <tr>

   <td width="209"></td>

   <td width="434">z1 = g(0<sup>m</sup>Iy1)zi+1 = g(ziIyi+1), 1 &lt; i &lt; k – 1,</td>

  </tr>

 </tbody>

</table>




and define h(x) as zk.

<ol>

 <li>Check that</li>

 <li>The map s from x to y is injective.</li>

 <li>There is no strings x =~ x’ and z such that s(x) = zIs(x’).</li>

 <li>Explain why the two previous conditions are of a major importance.</li>

 <li>Following a similar strategy as in the case t &gt; 2, prove that h is a collision resistant hash function.</li>

</ol>

<strong>Ex. 6 –</strong><em> Programming</em>

Implement the Pollard-rho factorization algorithm.